= Chef/Capistrano

This repository is a collection of config files and cookbooks that allow you to provision a
server and deploy your Rails app with Chef and Capistrano. In literally two local commands
your server will be up and running and your app will be deployed.

== How do I use it?

To be able to provision the server and deploy your app, you'll need to set up some stuff in
your Rails project. Follow these steps:

1. Add <tt>capistrano</tt> and <tt>capistrano_chef_solo</tt> to your Gemfile. See the Gemfile in this repository for an example.

2. <tt>bundle install</tt> and <tt>capify .</tt>

3. Require <tt>capistrano_chef_solo</tt> in your Capfile. See the Capfile in this repository for an example.

4. Edit <tt>config/deploy.rb</tt> to reflect your application. Please make sure to check if all variables have been set. See the <tt>deploy.rb</tt> in this repository for an example.

That's it! You're now ready to provision your server and deploy your app at one fell swoop. Well, two fell swoops actually. The first command adds the <tt>deploy</tt> user to your server. *Note*: the password for the deploy user is chosen randomly for you. It is echoed on the command line when the user is created. Please note it carefully. You'll need a root password to run this command:

  cap setup:deploy_user

Now you're ready to run the provisioning and deployment tasks. To do so:

  cap deploy

That's it!

== Technical notes

This collection of scripts and cookbooks is highly opinionated. They assume *Ubuntu* *10.04* *LTS*, *mysql*, *nginx* and *Passenger*. The tasks have been tested on a fresh Linode server without StackScripts and a vanilla Ubuntu 10.04 LTS installation. Other distributions may work, YMMV.

The <tt>passenger_nginx</tt> cookbook was created by myself, based on the <tt>nginx</tt> cookbook by Opscode and the <tt>passenger_nginx</tt> cookbook by @agoddard. All other cookbooks are from the offical Opscode repository.

== I can do better!

My experience with Chef is limited. It may well be that these cookbooks have been set up abysmally. If this is the case: please let me know! Pull requests are welcome, as are private messages with tips. Thanks!
